sfialevel5description:: Takes full responsibility for the definition, approach, facilitation and satisfactory completion of medium-scale projects. Provides effective leadership to the project team. Adopts appropriate project management methods and tools. Manages the change control process and assesses and manages risks. Ensures that realistic project plans are maintained and delivers regular and accurate communication to stakeholders. Ensures project and product quality reviews occur on schedule and according to procedure.  Ensures that project deliverables are completed within agreed cost, timescale and resource budgets, and are formally accepted, by appropriate stakeholders. Monitors costs, times, quality and resources used and takes action where  performance deviates from agreed tolerances.
sfialevel4description:: Defines, documents and executes small projects or sub-projects. Works alone or with a small team actively participating in all phases of the project. Applies appropriate project management methods and tools. Identifies, assesses and manages risks effectively. Agrees project approach with stakeholders and prepares realistic project plans (including scope, schedule, quality, risk and communication plans). Tracks activities against the project schedule, managing stakeholder involvement as appropriate. Monitors costs, times, quality and resources used takes action where these exceed agreed tolerances.
sfialevel6description:: Takes full responsibility for the definition, documentation and successful completion of complex projects. Adopts and adapts project management methods and tools. Ensures that effective project monitoring and control processes, change control, risk management and quality processes are employed and maintained. Monitors and controls resources, revenue and capital expenditures against the project budget. Manages the expectations of key project stakeholders.
sfiacategory:: Change and transformation
sfiaskill:: Project management
sfiasubcategory:: Change implementation
sfialevel7description:: Sets organisational strategy governing the direction and conduct of project management, including selection and application of methodologies. Authorises the management of large-scale projects. Leads project planning, scheduling, controlling and reporting activities for strategic, high impact, high risk projects. Directs the risk management approach for projects  and ensures that risks and issues are managed in line with policy.
sfiacode:: PRMG
sfiaguidancenotes:: This skill is applicable to all project management techniques and life cycles — which can be on a continuum from predictive (plan-driven) approaches to adaptive (iterative/agile) approaches.
sfiaoveralldescription:: Change and transformation
