public:: true
type:: [[Practice]]
standards:: [[@INCOSE Systems Engineering Handbook: A Guide for System Life Cycle Processes and Activities]], [[@The Standard for Organizational Project Management]], [[@Practice Standard for Scheduling - Third Edition]], [[@PMI Lexicon of Project Management Terms]]
synonyms:: planning of a project, planning of the project, planning of projects, planning projects, project design, project scheduling, project outline, project strategy, project proposal, project blueprint
practicedescription:: The purpose of the Project Planning process is to produce and coordinate effective and workable plans. Project planning starts with the identification of a new potential project and continues after the authorization and activation of the project until its termination. The project planning process is performed in the context of the organization. The life cycle model management process establishes and identifies relevant policies and procedures for managing and executing a technical effort; identifying the technical tasks, their interdependencies, risks, and opportunities; and providing estimates of needed resources and budgets. The planning includes the determination of the need for specialized equipment, facilities, and specialists during the project to improve efficiency and effectiveness and decrease cost overruns. This requires coordination across the set of processes. For example, different disciplines work together in the performance of system requirements definition, architecture definition, and design definition processes to evaluate the parameters such as manufacturability, testability, operability, maintainability, and sustainability against product performance. Project tasking may be concurrent to achieve the best results. Project planning establishes the direction and infrastructure necessary to enable the assessment and control of the project progress and identifies the details of the work and the right set of personnel, skills, and facilities with a schedule for needed resources from within and outside the organization.
